Document Billing Entity Design (#139)
appuio/appuio-io-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/explanation/decisions/billing-entity-virtual-resource.adoc

= {controlapi} Billing Entity as Virtual Resource

== Problem

> We want to allow users to create and manage their own billing entities using the {controlapi} as self-service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want to allow users to create and manage billing relevant data (billing entity) on their own using the {controlapi} (self-service).
```

It could be possible to use Webhooks in the ERP to notify the {controlapi} about changes.
There still needs to be backup mechanism if changes made in the ERP happen during downtime of the {controlapi} or vice-versa.

Since the custom resources are stored locally performance is not affected by the ERP.

We still need to implement an aggregate API server since list operations are not supported through Kubernetes RBAC.

.Editing Entity example
[example]
====
. The controller loads the billing entity from the ERP and stores it in the {controlapi}.
. A user edits the billing entity in the {portal}.
. The changes are saved in the control API.
. The controller compares versions and synchronizes the changes with the ERP.
====

.VSHN Specific
****
There are plugins that implement webhooks in the ERP. https://apps.odoo.com/apps/modules/browse?search=Odoo%20Webhook[Odoo Webhook marketplace search].

Since we have an ancient ERP version the plugins might not work.
****

== Decision

Virtual Resource Stored in ERP

== Rationale

The virtual resource stored in the ERP approach has been chosen because it does not have any synchronization issues.

> Debugging synchronization issues can be tricky and we still need most of the parts of the locally stored CRD approach.

Author: Yes. I'll try to write it more clearly
